Docs: Data Sets (#68)
Greater-Wellington-Regional-Council/Environmental-Outcomes-Platform: docs-site/src/markdown-pages/index.md

## Data Sets

> The data being acquired into EOP is the core of deriving information to deliver
> outcomes. Most outcomes will be delivered from a combination of different data
> sets to derive information. As each outcome is delivered, it may require
> acquiring different data sets into EOP. While simplifying the access to data
> that councils already collect is a primary goal of EOP but it also can be the
> point for integrating and collecting data from third parties.
> 
> This is list of the types of data sets that will be acquired by EOP. It isn't
> exhaustive, and EOP being successful will expand the types of data sets will be
> useful to have in EOP as more complex questions can be asked of the data once it
> is easier to access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a non-exhaustive list of the types data captured and housed by EOP. This
will be driven by requirements to support the delivery of specific outcomes.
 
We anticipate this list to expand as the platform is established, and more
complex questions and outcomes can be asked of the data.

While simplifying the access to the data that councils already collect is a
primary goal, EOP will also be a of integration for third party systems.
```

various environmental parameters.

Councils capture environmental observations in a variety of ways, and are often
captured using a variety of systems, including custom built systems,
spreadsheets and databases. A goal of EOP is to pull observations into a uniform
model to allow for easier analysis across different environmental parameters.
[Observations Data Model 2 (ODM)](https://www.odm2.org/ODM2/ODM2Overview.html)
is being explored as a potential uniform model for EOP.

### Regional Plans and Consenting Limits

Plans are the primary mechanism for setting limits on how much of a resource can
be allocated within a region. These limits are set by the council with the aim
of ensuring that resources are used sustainably. Consents are the mechanism for
allocating resources to a specific user limited by what is in the plan.

The combination of plans and consents can be combined with environmental
observations to determine how effective the plan is at delivering on
sustainability goals. This can be used to help the future planning process by
providing evidence of how effective the plan is.

### Geospatial Context Data

> Presenting relevant information to the users of EOP requires providing context
> for areas that the users care about for example showing the location of
> environmental observations in relation to the land use of the area.
> 
> This information may include:
> 
> - Council boundaries
> - District boundaries
> - Iwi significant areas
> - Land cover

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Showing environmental observations and analysis in the context of relevant
gespatial features helps improves usability and understandining of the data.

This information may include:

- Council boundaries
- District boundaries
- Iwi significant areas
- Land cover
```
